{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Times New Roman;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440

{\pard\qc\b\fs28 MARINE NOTES JOURNAL\par}
{\pard\qc\b\fs24 MANUSCRIPT TEMPLATE\par}
{\pard\qc\fs20 ====================================\par}
\par

{\pard\qc\b\fs28 [TITLE OF MANUSCRIPT IN TITLE CASE]\par}
{\pard\qc\fs20 Running Head: [Short title, max 40 characters]\par}
\par

{\pard\b\fs24 Authors:\par}
{\pard\fs20 [First Author Name]\'b9*, [Second Author Name]\'b2, [Third Author Name]\'b9\par}
\par

{\pard\b\fs24 Affiliations:\par}
{\pard\fs20 \'b9 [Department, Institution, City, Country]\par}
{\pard\fs20 \'b2 [Department, Institution, City, Country]\par}
\par

{\pard\fs20 *Corresponding author: [email@institution.edu]\par}
\par

{\pard\b\fs24 ORCID IDs:\par}
{\pard\fs20 [First Author]: 0000-0000-0000-0000\par}
{\pard\fs20 [Second Author]: 0000-0000-0000-0000\par}
\par

{\pard\qc\fs20 ====================================\par}
\par

{\pard\qc\b\fs24 ABSTRACT\par}
\par
{\pard\fs20 [250 words maximum. Provide a concise summary of the background, objectives, methods, main results, and conclusions of your study.]\par}
\par
{\pard\b\fs20 Keywords: {\b0 [keyword 1]; [keyword 2]; [keyword 3]; [keyword 4]; [keyword 5]}\par}
\par

{\pard\qc\fs20 ====================================\par}
\par

{\pard\b\fs24 1. INTRODUCTION\par}
\par
{\pard\fs20 [Provide background information, context for the research, and clearly state the research objectives or hypotheses. Cite relevant literature to establish the significance of your work.]\par}
\par

{\pard\qc\fs20 ====================================\par}
\par

{\pard\b\fs24 2. MATERIALS AND METHODS\par}
\par
{\pard\b\fs22 2.1 Study Area\par}
{\pard\fs20 [Describe the location and characteristics of your study site]\par}
\par
{\pard\b\fs22 2.2 Data Collection\par}
{\pard\fs20 [Provide sufficient detail for replication of your methods]\par}
\par
{\pard\b\fs22 2.3 Statistical Analysis\par}
{\pard\fs20 [Describe analytical approaches and software used]\par}
\par

{\pard\qc\fs20 ====================================\par}
\par

{\pard\b\fs24 3. RESULTS\par}
\par
{\pard\fs20 [Present your findings clearly and logically. Use subheadings as needed. Reference all figures and tables in the text.]\par}
\par

{\pard\qc\fs20 ====================================\par}
\par

{\pard\b\fs24 4. DISCUSSION\par}
\par
{\pard\fs20 [Interpret your results in the context of existing literature. Discuss implications, limitations, and future research directions.]\par}
\par

{\pard\qc\fs20 ====================================\par}
\par

{\pard\b\fs24 5. CONCLUSIONS\par}
\par
{\pard\fs20 [Summarize the key findings and their significance]\par}
\par

{\pard\qc\fs20 ====================================\par}
\par

{\pard\b\fs24 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS\par}
\par
{\pard\fs20 [Acknowledge funding sources, field assistance, and other contributions]\par}
\par

{\pard\qc\fs20 ====================================\par}
\par

{\pard\b\fs24 CONFLICT OF INTEREST\par}
\par
{\pard\fs20 [Declare any conflicts of interest or state "The authors declare no conflicts of interest."]\par}
\par

{\pard\qc\fs20 ====================================\par}
\par

{\pard\b\fs24 DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT\par}
\par
{\pard\fs20 [Describe where and how readers can access the data supporting your findings]\par}
\par

{\pard\qc\fs20 ====================================\par}
\par

{\pard\b\fs24 REFERENCES\par}
\par
{\pard\fs20 [Format references according to journal style. Examples:]\par}
\par
{\pard\b\fs20 Journal Article:\par}
{\pard\fs20 Smith, J.M., Anderson, K.L. (2024). Coral bleaching responses to temperature stress in the Caribbean. {\i Marine Notes Journal}, {\i 15}(2), 45-62.\par}
\par
{\pard\b\fs20 Book:\par}
{\pard\fs20 Thompson, R.C. (2023). {\i Marine Conservation Biology: Principles and Practice}. Academic Press, London, 345 pp.\par}
\par
{\pard\b\fs20 Book Chapter:\par}
{\pard\fs20 Martinez, P.L., Chen, W. (2024). Deep-sea mining impacts. In: {\i Ocean Resources and Sustainability} (Ed. K. Johnson). Springer, pp. 123-145.\par}
\par

{\pard\qc\fs20 ====================================\par}
\par

{\pard\b\fs24 FORMATTING INSTRUCTIONS:\par}
{\pard\fs20 \'95 Double-space throughout\par}
{\pard\fs20 \'95 Use 12-point Times New Roman or similar serif font\par}
{\pard\fs20 \'95 1-inch margins on all sides\par}
{\pard\fs20 \'95 Include line numbers\par}
{\pard\fs20 \'95 Use SI units throughout\par}
{\pard\fs20 \'95 Italicize species names at first mention\par}
{\pard\fs20 \'95 Submit figures at minimum 300 DPI resolution\par}
{\pard\fs20 \'95 Maximum word counts by type:\par}
{\pard\fs20   \'b7 Research Articles: 8,000 words\par}
{\pard\fs20   \'b7 Review Articles: 10,000 words\par}
{\pard\fs20   \'b7 Short Communications: 3,000 words\par}
{\pard\fs20   \'b7 Conservation News: 2,000 words\par}
{\pard\fs20   \'b7 Case Studies: 5,000 words\par}
{\pard\fs20   \'b7 Methodology Papers: 6,000 words\par}
\par

{\pard\qc\fs20 ====================================\par}
\par

{\pard\b\fs24 FIGURE CAPTIONS\par}
{\pard\fs20 (Submit separately or at end of manuscript)\par}
\par
{\pard\b\fs20 Figure 1. {\b0 [Descriptive caption with sufficient detail to understand the figure without referring to the main text]}\par}
\par
{\pard\b\fs20 Figure 2. {\b0 [Additional figures as needed]}\par}
\par

{\pard\qc\fs20 ====================================\par}
\par

{\pard\b\fs24 TABLES\par}
{\pard\fs20 (Submit separately or embedded in text)\par}
\par
{\pard\b\fs20 Table 1. {\b0 [Table title]}\par}
{\pard\fs20 [Table content with clear column headers and appropriate units]\par}
\par

{\pard\qc\fs20 ====================================\par}
\par

{\pard\b\fs24 SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIALS\par}
{\pard\fs20 (If applicable)\par}
\par
{\pard\fs20 List any supplementary files, data sets, or additional materials here.\par}
}
